these days people are turning away from
traditional coffee to decaffeinated
options instead even in the case of posh
coffees like this one and that's because
some of them think that in is a
healthier option but is it the first
thing to look into is how decaf coffee
is made there have been reports in media
claiming that some of the methods used
to remove the caffeine involve
substances that are actually bad for us
all decaffeination methods start with
this the green or unroasted coffee bean
most methods use water to get the
caffeine out of the beam then a chemical
solvent is often used to get the
caffeine out of the water solvent is
then removed and the remaining water is
dried off there are two possible
chemical solvents that can be used in
this process both of them technically
speaking
toxic but but the time the process is
complete they're found at such
vanishingly low levels that they are
below the European regulated safe limit
but to avoid any solvents there are
other methods that some manufacturers
use to remove the caffeine one
alternative uses a charcoal filter
another uses carbon dioxide at extremely
high pressures so you can choose solvent
free coffee if you want but there's not
any evidence that it's actually helpful
now coffee aficionados will tell you at
great length of course that the method
used to decaffeinate the coffee can
affect the taste so if you really worry
about these things then I'd be guided by
your taste buds and don't sweat about
the methods used to produce the gun
there is however something else that you
should be aware of if you're thinking of
going decaf
your decaf may not contain any chemical
nasties but you might be surprised to
know that it probably does contain some
caffeine a 2006 study conducted in
Florida found that 9 out of the 10
decafs they tested had at least some
caffeine in them so the two-shot
decaf latte that you're drinking might
contain as much caffeine as a can of
coke for most of us though if you're
worried about what your daily
cutter is doing to your health there's
something other than caffeine you might
want to think
a cup of black coffee it's virtually
calorie free add milk and sugar goes up
to around 50 calories but by the time
you're looking at one of these a giant
mocha latte it can be up to 500 calories
the same as a big burger or a large
piece of cake
so caffeinated or not you can enjoy a
small cup with an easy conscience but
treat this as a treat
you